README.md, before:

# MongoDB Utilities

## Build

This project depends on the `catalogmirror` library which must be installed to your local Maven repository before building.

### Prerequisites

1. Clone and build the catalogmirror project:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/catalogmirror
   export JAVA_HOME=/opt/homebrew/opt/openjdk@17/libexec/openjdk.jdk/Contents/Home
   mvn clean package -DskipTests
   ```

2. Install the obfuscated catalogmirror JAR to local Maven repository:
   ```bash
   mvn install:install-file \
     -Dfile=target/catalogmirror-1.0.0-obfuscated.jar \
     -DgroupId=com.mongodb \
     -DartifactId=catalogmirror \
     -Dversion=1.0.0 \
     -Dpackaging=jar
   ```

### Build mongo-util

Once catalogmirror is installed to your local Maven repository:

```bash
mvn clean package -DskipTests
```

The shaded JAR will be created at `bin/mongo-util.jar`.

ShardConfigSync
---------------
Sync shard metadata, copies sharding metadata from one cluster to another.

```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.shardsync.ShardConfigSyncApp \
    -s mongodb://admin:mypassword@source:27017/?authSource=admin \
    -d mongodb://destination1:27017 \
    -f db1 -f db2 \
    -m sh_0|shard_A -m sh_1|shard_A -m sh_2|shard_B -m sh_3|shard_B \
    -p /Users/mh/go/src/github.com/10gen/mongomirror/build/mongomirror \
    -dropDestinationCollectionsIfExisting \
    -syncMetadata
```

Run mongomirror process for each shard

```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.shardsync.ShardConfigSyncApp \
    -s mongodb://admin:mypassword@source:27017/?authSource=admin \
    -d mongodb://destination1:27017 \
    -f db1 -f db2 \
    -m sh_0|shard_A -m sh_1|shard_A -m sh_2|shard_B -m sh_3|shard_B \
    -p /Users/mh/go/src/github.com/10gen/mongomirror/build/mongomirror \
    -dropDestinationCollectionsIfExisting \
    -mongomirror
```

MongoReplayFilter
-----------------
This tool will filter the operations captured to only the essential operations, e.g. internal ops are removed and replies are removed from the resulting BSON.

This will also transcode 2010 opcodes to 2004 opcodes, which is useful when capturing sharded operations between a mongos and a mongod. Additionally, mongoreplay currently does not properly handle $query commands which will be sent in certain cases, e.g. when a non-default ReadPreference is specified.

Also supports limiting the number of operations (-l) and filtering fields from updates.

Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoreplay.MongoReplayFilter -f record041020185.bson
```
The output file will be written with the same name + `.FILTERED`.

MongoReplay
-----------
Similar to the mongoreplay utility, this encorporates some of the "hacks" implemented by MongoReplayFilter, and directly play the traffic to the desitination cluster. This tool will filter the operations captured to only the essential operations, e.g. internal ops are removed and replies are removed from the resulting BSON.

This will also transcode 2010 opcodes to 2004 opcodes, which is useful when capturing sharded operations between a mongos and a mongod. Additionally, mongoreplay currently does not properly handle $query commands which will be sent in certain cases, e.g. when a non-default ReadPreference is specified.



Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoreplay.MongoReplayFilter -f record041020185.bson
```
The output file will be written with the same name + `.FILTERED`.


DiffUtil / "jdiff"
-----------------
Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```
Alias:
```
alias jdiff='java -cp ~/mongo-util/bin/mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.diffutil.DiffUtilApp'
```
There are 3 modes that you may find useful:
Diff counts:
```
jdiff --compareCounts
```
Diff document _ids
```
jdiff --compareIds
```
Compare full document hashes
```
jdiff --compareDocuments
```

MongoExport
-----------
This tool is for exporting data from a MongoDB collection similar to the `mongoexport` utility. This tool will however provide the ability to cast all extended BSON types as strings. That is, any Date, UUID, Binary, or ObjectId will be cast as a String in order to produce "pure" JSON.

Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoexport.MongoExport --uri mongodb://localhost:27017 -d mydb -c myCollection -o myCollection.json
```

Disclaimer
----------
This software is not supported by MongoDB, Inc. under any of their commercial support subscriptions or otherwise. Any usage of this software is at your own risk. Bug reports, feature requests and questions can be posted in the Issues section on GitHub.

Commit message:

Add catalogmirror JAR to lib directory for user builds
- Include catalogmirror-1.0.0.jar in lib/ directory so users can build without access to catalogmirror source
- Update README with simplified build instructions using lib/catalogmirror-1.0.0.jar
- Users install catalogmirror from lib/ to local Maven before building mongo-util

README.md, after:

# MongoDB Utilities

## Build

This project depends on the `catalogmirror` library which must be installed to your local Maven repository before building.

### Install catalogmirror dependency

The catalogmirror library is included in the `lib/` directory. Install it to your local Maven repository:

```bash
mvn install:install-file \
  -Dfile=lib/catalogmirror-1.0.0.jar \
  -DgroupId=com.mongodb \
  -DartifactId=catalogmirror \
  -Dversion=1.0.0 \
  -Dpackaging=jar
```

### Build mongo-util

Once catalogmirror is installed to your local Maven repository:

```bash
mvn clean package -DskipTests
```

The shaded JAR will be created at `bin/mongo-util.jar`.

ShardConfigSync
---------------
Sync shard metadata, copies sharding metadata from one cluster to another.

```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.shardsync.ShardConfigSyncApp \
    -s mongodb://admin:mypassword@source:27017/?authSource=admin \
    -d mongodb://destination1:27017 \
    -f db1 -f db2 \
    -m sh_0|shard_A -m sh_1|shard_A -m sh_2|shard_B -m sh_3|shard_B \
    -p /Users/mh/go/src/github.com/10gen/mongomirror/build/mongomirror \
    -dropDestinationCollectionsIfExisting \
    -syncMetadata
```

Run mongomirror process for each shard

```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.shardsync.ShardConfigSyncApp \
    -s mongodb://admin:mypassword@source:27017/?authSource=admin \
    -d mongodb://destination1:27017 \
    -f db1 -f db2 \
    -m sh_0|shard_A -m sh_1|shard_A -m sh_2|shard_B -m sh_3|shard_B \
    -p /Users/mh/go/src/github.com/10gen/mongomirror/build/mongomirror \
    -dropDestinationCollectionsIfExisting \
    -mongomirror
```

MongoReplayFilter
-----------------
This tool will filter the operations captured to only the essential operations, e.g. internal ops are removed and replies are removed from the resulting BSON.

This will also transcode 2010 opcodes to 2004 opcodes, which is useful when capturing sharded operations between a mongos and a mongod. Additionally, mongoreplay currently does not properly handle $query commands which will be sent in certain cases, e.g. when a non-default ReadPreference is specified.

Also supports limiting the number of operations (-l) and filtering fields from updates.

Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoreplay.MongoReplayFilter -f record041020185.bson
```
The output file will be written with the same name + `.FILTERED`.

MongoReplay
-----------
Similar to the mongoreplay utility, this encorporates some of the "hacks" implemented by MongoReplayFilter, and directly play the traffic to the desitination cluster. This tool will filter the operations captured to only the essential operations, e.g. internal ops are removed and replies are removed from the resulting BSON.

This will also transcode 2010 opcodes to 2004 opcodes, which is useful when capturing sharded operations between a mongos and a mongod. Additionally, mongoreplay currently does not properly handle $query commands which will be sent in certain cases, e.g. when a non-default ReadPreference is specified.



Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoreplay.MongoReplayFilter -f record041020185.bson
```
The output file will be written with the same name + `.FILTERED`.


DiffUtil / "jdiff"
-----------------
Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```
Alias:
```
alias jdiff='java -cp ~/mongo-util/bin/mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.diffutil.DiffUtilApp'
```
There are 3 modes that you may find useful:
Diff counts:
```
jdiff --compareCounts
```
Diff document _ids
```
jdiff --compareIds
```
Compare full document hashes
```
jdiff --compareDocuments
```

MongoExport
-----------
This tool is for exporting data from a MongoDB collection similar to the `mongoexport` utility. This tool will however provide the ability to cast all extended BSON types as strings. That is, any Date, UUID, Binary, or ObjectId will be cast as a String in order to produce "pure" JSON.

Download:
```
wget -O mongo-util.jar https://github.com/mhelmstetter/mongo-util/blob/master/bin/mongo-util.jar?raw=true
```

Run:
```
java -cp mongo-util.jar com.mongodb.mongoexport.MongoExport --uri mongodb://localhost:27017 -d mydb -c myCollection -o myCollection.json
```

Disclaimer
----------
This software is not supported by MongoDB, Inc. under any of their commercial support subscriptions or otherwise. Any usage of this software is at your own risk. Bug reports, feature requests and questions can be posted in the Issues section on GitHub.
